---
layout: email
permalink: /downloads/emails/important-update-on-internal-covid-19-measures/
title: Important update on internal COVID-19 measures
---

<small>06:40 on 16 June 2021</small>

As part of the continued review of the mitigation measures that are in place to protect our community from the risks of COVID-19, the Executive have been considering the thresholds for stepping down some measures as well as maintaining measures in the long term. For example, the introduction of additional outdoor seating and tables to support outdoor meetings in the good weather will be maintained post pandemic as will the provision of hand sanitiser in all reception spaces. We expect all staff to continue to **use hand sanitiser when entering or exiting our properties** and maintain good hand hygiene.

We will be reinstating **weekly fire alarm testing from this Friday** at a new time of **11am** in Bath ASU. Fire wardens will be trained on how to undertake this process and will manage their fire alarm test rota. As training is taking place this Friday the alarm will sound between 11am and noon.

We will be **removing the shelter outside Microgenetics** as this was to support external temperature checking of visitors and contractors prior to entry. We are continuing to conduct COVID-19 tests with all visitors and contractors prior to entry so this shelter is no longer required.

Staff who need to work and move between buildings have been required to wear face masks when leaving their designated bubble, including in meeting rooms. As there is significantly less risk of transmission of COVID-19 from those who have developed antibodies, having had two vaccinations, and given that we are undertaking surveillance testing of all staff, we will be relaxing this risk mitigation measure. For those staff who are required to move and work in different buildings, they will **no longer need to wear a face mask 2 weeks after their second vaccination** has been received. Staff must continue to **maintain social distancing** requirements whilst undertaking their work and if this is not possible, they need to wear an approved, disposable face mask. This change does not affect all staff currently required to wear a face mask within specific environments such as the Pharmaxo dispensary, Microgenetics R&D lab or the Bath ASU Aseptic manufacturing environments. This change does not alter the segregation of IT and Maintenance teams use of the A15 café space to minimise mixing in the other café spaces.

The Executive have spent some time considering other mitigation measures around social distancing and whilst there have been relaxations in social settings the requirement for workplaces is to maintain social distancing wherever possible. As the number of staff that are fully vaccinated increases, the risk to individual’s health through contracting COVID-19 will significantly reduce; however, the government’s Test and Trace requirements still mean that should we relax our social distancing measures in the workplace and an individual tests positive with COVID-19, all staff in close contact with this individual would still be required to **self-isolate for 10 days.** Close contact is still defined as being in contact within **1 meter for more than 1 minute or within 2 meters for more than 15 minutes.** As such we need to maintain social distancing to minimise this risk to you, your families and the business. For example, if you are attending a meeting in person and if you are unable to maintain 2 meters separation then face masks must be worn.
