---
layout: email
title: COVID-19 update 01/04/20
category: QPHL communications
---

I am sure all of you are paying close attention to the news, we cannot fail to notice the increasing numbers of COVID-19 infections and associated deaths. Whilst these numbers shock us, they should be no surprise as they are part of a predictable pathway: we must steel ourselves for those numbers to rise further as they surely will.

What we have on our side is that the NHS has, and continues to, rapidly increase its capacity to deal with those that will be most severely affected: a fivefold increase in ITU beds in local hospitals, clinical practice rapidly adjusting to treat COVID-19, new field hospitals built in larger cities. We should all take comfort form this, I certainly do.

YOU are helping that happen.

Bath ASU continue to make medicines (12,379 in last 5 days) and Pharmaxo continue to treat people at home (850 in last 5 days). By doing this we are maximising the NHS resources that can be focused on the frontline nationally, but of course locally in our own hospitals too.

Pharmaxo, supported by Bath ASU, is leading a programme with NHS England in the mass transfer of patients from hospitals to homecare or community settings. By the time you read this, we will be near to an additional 1500 patients in process with more to follow. All to be treated in the home or pop-up community IV clinics. Many of them are cancer patients with compromised immune systems that need us to keep them in their treatment programmes whilst distanced from hospitals where infected patients are.

Whilst Microgenetics' technology cannot detect COVID-19 at this time, product development activities continue at full speed; their mission “to help humankind win the war against pathogens” has never been more relevant.

All of YOU, whether directly operational, support or redeployed, TOGETHER are helping make all of this happen. This is great work that you can be proud of.

I am hearing lots of stories about where we are also supporting each other in “Our community” whilst we face this. Whether dropping medicines off to self-isolating colleagues, acting as each other’s plan B for caring responsibilities, or just keeping your chin up – you are all “Our community” heroes, thank you.

**Chris Watt**<br>
Chief Executive, QPHL