---
layout: email
title: COVID-19 update 07/05/20
category: QPHL communications
---

Dear team,

As we prepare to spend another bank holiday weekend at home with our families, I am sure we’ll also be thinking about how and when our lives might get back to some form of normal. Of course, as officially recognised key workers, we have carried on working through the crisis putting patients first, so maybe things are a little more normal for us than others.

On Sunday, we will hear from the Government about when and how some of the movement and contact restrictions will be lifted. Given how this is being trailed in the media, I expect that we will hear about specific measures that will be taken to get our children back to school, restart public transport and allow people back to work. We’ll hear about how specific measures will support these changes, the use of face masks, the NHS contact tracing app and many others.

I want you to be assured that throughout this, the leadership team has been carefully considering government guidance and will continue to do so. At morning briefings, we track progress on actions agreed, and the executive group has met each Monday evening to review whether we have the bigger picture right, keeping true to our value, Is there more to learn? The executive group are meeting this weekend on Sunday evening for our initial review of what we have learned from the government’s plan. We will be specifically reviewing any workplace guidance issued and over what timescale we should implement it.

We already know that face masks are going to feature in some way in the future for shopping, being outside and maybe even at work. Given the supply shortages and the absolute necessity to not use our own stock for this, we are purchasing reusable/washable masks for you, Our Community, and your families. We will let you have these as soon as they arrive so you can be prepared to use them if we need to. We are not yet certain that we can get child sizes, but procurement is trying to sort this too.

I also want you to be assured that, even if the government’s new guidance appears to make big changes to how we might be working in future, that will not have made our workplace in Corsham any less safe on Monday than it is today. The government's plan, and any changes required, are to allow for increased movement of people in the future. This will bring more social contact and in turn, higher infection rates. That in turn increases the risk of bringing that infection to our workplace. The changes are intended to mitigate that future risk of increasing transmission, not to change the way we work overnight.

As of today, made clear by there being no single team member on sick leave with COVID-19 symptoms, the virus is not prevalent within our team right now. This is indicative of the success of the government's wider lockdown and your adherence to it. Thank you for that, you are making our workplace safer for us all. I will let you know early/mid next week what we will be doing to keep our workplace as safe in the future as you have made it so far.

Have a great weekend.

**Chris Watt**<br>
Chief Executive at QPHL